YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to the
channel. Does DLSS lower your input lag?
So, the long story short is it does
lower input lag, but the long answer is
it depends. So, it's going to depend on
how fast your card is, what resolution
you're running, how GP bound the
situation is. Okay, so DLSS is just like
running a lower resolution, but looks
better, and most of the time will lower
your input lag. It's frame generation
and multiframe generation that increase
our input lag. Here's a nice little
chart here to make things a little bit
simpler. We need to not over complicate
DSS. We just need to think of using DSS
as using a lower resolution, but it
looks a lot better because it's Nvidia
upscaling with AI and a sharpening
filter. So, here's a cool chart here.
Today, we're going to do 4K Modern
Warfare multiplayer and war zone. And I
will use the performance preset which
will put us in 1080p with DLSS. And then
I will measure native 1080p as well. So
here's a GPU balance situation. We're
getting about 350 fps and roughly 7
milliseconds input lag on native 4K.
Let's go put DLSS on performance.
[Music]
Now we're getting
about 6 milliseconds input lag and 400
fps. Now unfortunately this didn't
increase our frame rate as much as I'd
hoped and I found DLSS to do that
sometimes versus just running a lower
resolution. So lensy didn't come down by
about 6 milliseconds because we're
rendering a lot less pixels. It's
technically 1080p here. Let's go turn
DSS
off and we'll switch the resolution to
1080p. We'll see what we get in native
1080p. Quite a lot higher frames than
DLSS,
unfortunately. You thought DLSS would do
do a little bit better than this.
Getting about 500 fps and 5 milliseconds
input lag here. Now, what if we use DLSS
performance at 1080p? That'll make our
resolution technically 960x
540. Let's go try that.
So, our frame rate didn't come up much
here. Maybe the latency has come down a
tiny bit, but not much. And why is that?
That's because now we've become a little
bit more CPUbound here. And I'd need a
faster CPU to see any latency for the
card to be able to run faster here. So,
the answer is it depends. Sometimes
it'll depend on how GPU heavy is the
game, what resolution you're running,
what settings you are running, um, and
sort of what hardware you have. Right
now, I can't run 960x 540 in this game.
But what we can do is we can use the
render resolution slider to kind of
duplicate that resolution hopefully.
Let's turn DLSS back off so we're
running native of 1080p. Let's change
this render resolution all the way down
until we can roughly get 960x 540. So
that'll be 50% when I'm on native
1080p. Now, this will work just as well
as changing the resolution thankfully,
but not all games have this option, a
render resolution slider. Okay, so we
did see well no, not much of a change
there either. Maybe input lag is
slightly lower than DLSS, but we're once
again we're at a point where we're just
CPUbound here and we would need a faster
CPU to get lower latency and more frames
in this situation. So, we tested
something fairly GPU heavy, fairly GPU
heavy situation. Why don't if we try
something that's a little bit more or
way more CPU heavy, something like War
Zone Big Map. Let's go and do that now.
Okay, we're in War Zone Viden Casual.
We're getting about 330 fps at about 7
milliseconds input lag on native 4K.
Once again, let's switch the performance
preset on the DLSS
profile. Our frame rate has come up not
much it looks like because we're still
in a CPUbound
situation. Let's try native
1080p. See if that's any better.
Maybe a really tiny little bit better
than Dills, but still not that great.
And why is this? This is because I've
got a powerful card and we're mostly in
a CP bound situation here. So, what
would help me next is getting a faster
CPU. Now, how about performance DLSS on
1080p resolution? Let's see what that's
like.
See, once again, it's not really helping
because we're CP bound here. So, this is
technically 1080p at performance DSS,
which is 960x 540. Now, what if we try
just native 960x 540? We'll do that
here. Let's turn DLSS
off. Let's lower our render resolution
to
[Music]
50. And once again, this has not helped
either. We are completely CPU bound
here. Maybe latency has come down a tiny
bit because we're rendering less pixels
and because we have lower GPU usage. You
can see here we're about 55 60% GPU
usage now. So just GPU usage in its own
getting it lower can actually affect lag
too. These tests are conducted with
these specs. Do not expect identical
results on your hardware. That said, you
can expect similar scaling with my
recommendation. Okay, let me summarize
it for you guys. We've got average FPS,
1% lows, 0.1% lows. We have the title
here. And we have the latency. That's
overall system
latency. This is multiplayer in a
GPUbound situation, right? Playing 4K
350 fps, we're getting about 7.2
millconds input lag. If we use
performance DLSS, which is technically
rendering 1920 x 1080 pixels, we get a
nice FPS increase and our input lag
comes down to 6.3
milliseconds. If we run native 1080p
instead of using DLSS, we actually get
quite a lot more frames, 500 fps at 4.7
milliseconds input lag. Now, DLSS can
depend sometimes on the game. I have
seen where DLSS actually works better in
some games than other games. So, it
definitely could have some improvement
here, especially for this
situation. Let's try 1080p with
performance DLSS, which would
technically be rendering 1960 x 540
pixels. Input lag has come down even
more at 4.6 milliseconds and FPS only
came up by 20 FPS roughly. No, it's 12
FPS roughly. 520 FPS. And what if we
natively try 960x 4 540, right? input
lag X come down even more at 4.27
milliseconds and we're getting about 536
FPS. So FPS has increased but we're only
seeing slight increases here because
we're getting to the point where right
here we're actually in a CPUbound
situation a lot more. So what's going to
help after this? Not much else. We can't
turn settings down even more. We can't
run at a lower resolution. We just need
a faster CPU at this point to get these
numbers any better. if that makes any
sense hopefully for you guys. Now,
here's where it gets more interesting.
War Zone big map and we're in a CPUbound
situation here because War Zone Big Map,
even in low settings, you're it's a lot
more of a CPUbound situation than
multiplayer where it's more GPU bound
situation. At 4K, we're getting about
6.7 milliseconds input lag and about 350
FPS. 4K performance still SS which is
technically rendering 1920 x 1080p
pixels 6 milliseconds input lag with a
really small FPS increase and this is
because we're mostly CPUbound here and
we would need a faster CPU to see better
FPS and better numbers on the latency
here right just how sort of war zone is
so what if we try 1080p 5.2 2
milliseconds input lag and the frame
rate's come up slightly. And then what
about 1080p at performance DLSS which
should technically be rendering 960x 540
pixels. Input lag hasn't really changed
here. Frame rate really hasn't changed
here. That's because we are completely
CPUbound now. And what if we try native
pixels at 960x 540? Yes, the latency's
come down ever so slightly. And this is
probably more than likely due to lower
GPU usage and the frame rate hasn't
really changed. This would just be
runto-run variation and how many players
are running around at the time. That's
the thing with benchmarks. You always
get slightly variable results when
benchmarking, especially in a online
server with lots of players running
around you. So, what could we do to
improve this? Well, looking at this,
there'd be really no point not playing
in 4K in my opinion. Um, and we would
just need a faster CPU, right?
especially if you wanted to run lower
settings and lower resolutions cuz it's
not really helping us that much. So, I
hope that clears some things up for you
guys. Um, DLSS isn't bad. It's frame
generation that's bad. And guys, this
would be the same thing for guys that
have AMD cards and you're using um FSR
or even if you wanted to use FSR on an
Nvidia card, it's exactly the same sort
of thing. At the end of the day,
whatever your resolution is, if you're
using DLSS or FSR, you're simply just
rendering a lower resolution. But it
does look better with DLSS or FSR
because it is using an algorithm to
upscale with a sharpening filter. And
depending on the situation of the game,
um, is it a CPUbound situation? Is it a
GPU bound situation? How fast is your
card? How fast is your CPU? U, what
settings are you running? What
resolution are you running? What's your
GPU usage? These all affect these
things. So hopefully I've been able to
break it down a little bit for you guys
to understand what is going on.
Enjoy your weekend, guys, and I'll talk
to you soon. Bye.